src/docs/content/docs/configuration/authentication.md, before:

+++
[menu.docs]
name = "Shiro Authentication"
weight = 60
identifier = "auth"
parent = "configuration"
+++

# Authentication

Authentication is activated in Reaper by default. It relies on [Apache Shiro](https://shiro.apache.org/), which allows to store users and password in files, databases or connect through LDAP and Active Directory out of the box. The default authentication uses the dummy username and password as found in the default [shiro.ini](https://github.com/thelastpickle/cassandra-reaper/blob/master/src/server/src/main/resources/shiro.ini). It is expected you override this in a production environment.

This default Shiro authentication configuration is referenced via the  following block in the Reaper yaml file : 

```ini
accessControl:
  sessionTimeout: PT10M
  shiro:
    iniConfigs: ["classpath:shiro.ini"]
```

## Default settings

As of Reaper 1.4.0, authentication is enabled by default and credentials are:
  
* Username: **admin**
* Password: **admin** 

## With clear passwords

Copy the default `shiro.ini` file and adapt it overriding the "users" section : 

```ini
…

[users]
user1 = password1
user2 = password2

…
```

## With encrypted passwords

Based on [Shiro's document on Encrypting passwords](https://shiro.apache.org/configuration.html#Configuration-EncryptingPasswords) :

```ini
[main]
authc = org.apache.shiro.web.filter.authc.PassThruAuthenticationFilter
authc.loginUrl = /webui/login.html
sha256Matcher = org.apache.shiro.authc.credential.Sha256CredentialsMatcher
iniRealm.credentialsMatcher = $sha256Matcher
filterChainResolver.globalFilters = null


[users]
john = 807A09440428C0A8AEF58BD3ECE32938B0D76E638119E47619756F5C2C20FF3A

…
```

To generate a password, you case use for example :

* From the command line :

```shell
echo -n "Hello World" | shasum -a 256
echo -n "Hello World" | sha256sum
```

* Or some language of your choice  (like Python here) :

```python
import hashlib
hash_object = hashlib.sha256(b'Hello World')
hex_dig = hash_object.hexdigest()
print(hex_dig)
a591a6d40bf420404a011733cfb7b190d62c65bf0bcda32b57b277d9ad9f146e
```

## With LDAP accounts

Based on [Shiro's LDAP realm usage](https://shiro.apache.org/static/1.2.4/apidocs/org/apache/shiro/realm/ldap/JndiLdapContextFactory.html).

An example configuration for LDAP authentication exists (commented out) in the default shiro.ini :

```

# Example LDAP realm, see https://shiro.apache.org/static/1.2.4/apidocs/org/apache/shiro/realm/ldap/JndiLdapContextFactory.html
ldapRealm = org.apache.shiro.realm.ldap.JndiLdapRealm
ldapRealm.userDnTemplate = uid={0},ou=users,dc=cassandra-reaper,dc=io
ldapRealm.contextFactory.url = ldap://ldapHost:389
;ldapRealm.contextFactory.authenticationMechanism = DIGEST-MD5
;ldapRealm.contextFactory.systemUsername = cn=Manager, dc=example, dc=com
;ldapRealm.contextFactory.systemPassword = secret
;ldapRealm.contextFactory.environment[java.naming.security.credentials] = ldap_password

```


## Accessing Reaper via the command line `spreaper`

In order to interact with Reaper through `spreaper` when Shiro authentication is activated, you will first need to login as follows:  

```
$ ./spreaper login admin
Password: *****
# Logging in...
You are now authenticated to Reaper.
# JWT saved

```

The JWT will be saved in `~/.reaper/jwt` and automatically used by Reaper for any other call.
Pre-existing tokens can be passed to spreaper using `--jwt <token>` with any call.

## Accessing Reaper via the REST API

The RESTful endpoints to Reaper can also be authenticated using JWT (Java Web Token).

A token can be generated from the `/jwt` url by passing the Session ID cookie retrieved from the `/login` endpoint.
Logging in through `/login` is described in the [REST Api page](/docs/api/).

Commit message:

Add reference for custom shiro.ini

src/docs/content/docs/configuration/authentication.md, after:

+++
[menu.docs]
name = "Shiro Authentication"
weight = 60
identifier = "auth"
parent = "configuration"
+++

# Authentication

Authentication is activated in Reaper by default. It relies on [Apache Shiro](https://shiro.apache.org/), which allows to store users and password in files, databases or connect through LDAP and Active Directory out of the box. The default authentication uses the dummy username and password as found in the default [shiro.ini](https://github.com/thelastpickle/cassandra-reaper/blob/master/src/server/src/main/resources/shiro.ini). It is expected you override this in a production environment.

This default Shiro authentication configuration is referenced via the  following block in the Reaper yaml file : 

```ini
accessControl:
  sessionTimeout: PT10M
  shiro:
    iniConfigs: ["classpath:shiro.ini"]
```

## Default settings

As of Reaper 1.4.0, authentication is enabled by default and credentials are:
  
* Username: **admin**
* Password: **admin** 

## With clear passwords

Copy the default `shiro.ini` file and adapt it overriding the "users" section : 

```ini
…

[users]
user1 = password1
user2 = password2

…
```
If you use a container, make sure you set the environment variable `REAPER_SHIRO_INI` to a valid path inside the container otherwise your custom shiro.ini will not be used.

## With encrypted passwords

Based on [Shiro's document on Encrypting passwords](https://shiro.apache.org/configuration.html#Configuration-EncryptingPasswords) :

```ini
[main]
authc = org.apache.shiro.web.filter.authc.PassThruAuthenticationFilter
authc.loginUrl = /webui/login.html
sha256Matcher = org.apache.shiro.authc.credential.Sha256CredentialsMatcher
iniRealm.credentialsMatcher = $sha256Matcher
filterChainResolver.globalFilters = null


[users]
john = 807A09440428C0A8AEF58BD3ECE32938B0D76E638119E47619756F5C2C20FF3A

…
```

To generate a password, you case use for example :

* From the command line :

```shell
echo -n "Hello World" | shasum -a 256
echo -n "Hello World" | sha256sum
```

* Or some language of your choice  (like Python here) :

```python
import hashlib
hash_object = hashlib.sha256(b'Hello World')
hex_dig = hash_object.hexdigest()
print(hex_dig)
a591a6d40bf420404a011733cfb7b190d62c65bf0bcda32b57b277d9ad9f146e
```

## With LDAP accounts

Based on [Shiro's LDAP realm usage](https://shiro.apache.org/static/1.2.4/apidocs/org/apache/shiro/realm/ldap/JndiLdapContextFactory.html).

An example configuration for LDAP authentication exists (commented out) in the default shiro.ini :

```

# Example LDAP realm, see https://shiro.apache.org/static/1.2.4/apidocs/org/apache/shiro/realm/ldap/JndiLdapContextFactory.html
ldapRealm = org.apache.shiro.realm.ldap.JndiLdapRealm
ldapRealm.userDnTemplate = uid={0},ou=users,dc=cassandra-reaper,dc=io
ldapRealm.contextFactory.url = ldap://ldapHost:389
;ldapRealm.contextFactory.authenticationMechanism = DIGEST-MD5
;ldapRealm.contextFactory.systemUsername = cn=Manager, dc=example, dc=com
;ldapRealm.contextFactory.systemPassword = secret
;ldapRealm.contextFactory.environment[java.naming.security.credentials] = ldap_password

```


## Accessing Reaper via the command line `spreaper`

In order to interact with Reaper through `spreaper` when Shiro authentication is activated, you will first need to login as follows:  

```
$ ./spreaper login admin
Password: *****
# Logging in...
You are now authenticated to Reaper.
# JWT saved

```

The JWT will be saved in `~/.reaper/jwt` and automatically used by Reaper for any other call.
Pre-existing tokens can be passed to spreaper using `--jwt <token>` with any call.

## Accessing Reaper via the REST API

The RESTful endpoints to Reaper can also be authenticated using JWT (Java Web Token).

A token can be generated from the `/jwt` url by passing the Session ID cookie retrieved from the `/login` endpoint.
Logging in through `/login` is described in the [REST Api page](/docs/api/).
